# HDAC6_detector
The HDAC6 (histone deacetylase 6) enzyme plays a key role in many biological processes, including cell division, apoptosis, and immune response. HDAC6 is also involved in controlling the activity of the microtubule network, which is important for maintaining cell shape and function. Based on the functions performed, HDAC6 is involved in the development of a number of diseases, including oncology, neurodegenerative disorders, and immune system disorders. To date, HDAC6 inhibitors are being developed as effective drugs for the treatment of various diseases. In this work, adequate QSAR models of HDAC6 inhibitors are proposed. They are integrated into the developed application HDAC6 Detector, which is freely available at https://ovttiras-hdac6-detector-hdac6-detector-app-yzh8y5.streamlit.app/. This web application allows us to reveal the compounds the predicted activity of which to inhibit HDAC6 is higher than that the reference compound Vorinostat (IC50=10.4 nM). The algorithm built in the HDAC6 DETECTOR application for determining the contributions of molecular fragments to the inhibitory activity makes it possible to select the molecule fragments that increase and decrease the activity. In addition, the application can evaluate the compliance of a compound with Lipinski's rule. The developed models are used for virtual screening of a series of twelve new hydroxamic acids, namely, the derivatives of 3-hydroxyquinazoline-4(3H)-ones and 2-aryl-2,3-dihydroquinazoline-4(1H)-ones. In vitro evaluation of the inhibitory activity of this series of compounds against HDAC6 allowed us to confirm the results of virtual screening and to select promising compounds V-6 and V-11, the IC50 of which is 0.99 and 0.81 nM, respectively. 
